the time it takes to finish the degree is based on first of all, what
degree we're talking about. And then, second of all, what? What you're
doing for that degree. So a bachelor's degree generally takes 4 to
5 years for most students. And, of course, there's, you know, people
on either side of that. So some people can take a little shorter,
some a little longer. But most people are going to take between four
and five years to finish their bachelors degree. Ah, master's degree
is generally going to take anywhere between two and three years,
and then a PhD degree is generally going to take somewhere between four
and six years, and the differences in all of these degrees why there's
kind of a range has to do with exactly what you're doing. So,
for instance, if we're looking at the bachelor's degree, some majors
require mawr classes than other majors Dio, and so those majors just
may take a little bit longer for someone to complete all the classes
that they need. Um, same thing is true in a master's program. Generally,
they take two years, but some programs require more work. They
require, uh, different classes and maybe the classes are offered
all the time. So again, that can add to the length of time in the degree
program. When we're looking at like a PhD degree, Um, oftentimes
that's going to depend to ah ah, large extent on the type of research
that you are engaged in as a PhD student. So So, one of the requirements
the biggest requirement of the PhD degrees that you contribute
something new Thio the, uh, in terms of research. So you have to
do like a new study with new data and show something knew that adds
to the field. And so depending on the kind of work that you're doing
that can really affect your time, um, to finishing the project and
getting your degree. So, for instance, an example of this Is that
the lab that I got my Ph. D. N? We did behavioral work, uh, in in rodents
and our studies went pretty quickly. So they lasted, you know,
maybe a couple months. You know, a long study would be a study that
lasted maybe four months, something like that on dso It was possible.
Thio, you know, do ah whole research program, essentially in a relatively
short period of time. And so I ended up getting my PhD in a
almost exactly four years. And then when I went thio work at U. C I
in the lab there, I you know, I already had my PhD at that point. But
the graduate students who are working on their PhDs in that lab,
the way the research that was being done in that lab took a lot longer.
So they were doing, um, work that required waiting for stains to
emerge in various tissues, usually brain tissue on. I mean, it could
take four weeks for Thio, even see if the stain worked out right.
So So the students in that lab, one of them took five years, and one
of them took six years to get their PhD work done. And that's just
because the type of work that they were doing had just a much longer
time course. So there can be some variability there